---
layout: post
title: Release 3.0.0
category: blog
excerpt: Localization, touch support, dark theme, npm
author: Jesse Chan (jesec)
---

## [3.0.0]
* BREAKING CHANGES:
  * If `baseURI` is set, server will only respond to requests with baseURI. For instance, if you use `location /flood {proxy_pass http://127.0.0.1:3000;}`, you would have to change it to `location /flood {proxy_pass http://127.0.0.1:3000/flood;}`.
  * Static assets now use relative paths only. It is no longer needed to recompile after `baseURI` change.
  * Location of runtime files are rearranged. New default location for runtime files is `./run` folder. `tempPath` is now made configurable.
  * Static assets are relocated to `./dist` folder. You have to change the path from `./server/assets` to `./dist/assets` if you serve static assets from web server.
  * Flood will refuse to start if secrets are detected in static assets. Former default secret `flood` and some other weak secrets are no longer accepted.
* A command line interface is added as `config.cli.js`. Rename it to `config.js` and run `npm run start -- --help` for more details.
* With some changes, Flood is now ready for publish to `npm`. You can now use `sudo npm install -g flood` to get a ready-to-use copy of Flood, then run `flood`. It is even easier with `npx`, try `npx flood --help` now.
* Better localization:
  * Flood project is now integrated with [Crowdin](https://crwd.in/flood), a renowned translation management system. It is now easier than ever to contribute your translations to Flood.
  * Language will now be automatically detected from your browser by default.
  * New languages are supported: `Čeština`, `Deutsch`, `italiano`, `norsk`, `Polskie`, `русский язык`, `Romanian`, `svenska`, `українська мова`, `日本語` and `اَلْعَرَبِيَّةُ` thanks to `Crowdin Machine Translation`.
  * New translations for `Chinese (Traditional)` thanks to @vongola12324.
  * New translations for `Dutch` thanks to @NLxDoDge.
  * New translations for `Portuguese` thanks to @MiguelNdeCarvalho.
* Support for touch and smaller screen devices:
  * Sidebar is able to be collapsed via a button. It is collapsed by default when screen width is lower than `720px`.
  * Modals (Settings, Torrent Details, Add Torrent, etc.) are tuned for smaller screen devices.
  * It is now possible to open context (right click) menu on iOS/Safari devices by long pressing the item.
  * Drag and drop is now possible for touch devices. You can now adjust the order of columns in Settings on touch devices.
  * Widths of columns are now adjustable on touch devices. (condensed view)
* Dark color scheme support:
  * Flood now automatically switches between light and dark color scheme based on your system settings.
* XML special chars (`&`, `<`, `>`, `'`, `"`) are properly handled. For instance, escaped chars like `&` will be properly displayed as `&` instead of `&amp;`. File operations on torrent with special chars no longer fail.
* `squashfs` and `tmpfs` mount points are now excluded by default in disk usage. This hopefully makes sure that useless system mounts won't spam the list.
* `More Info` button in expanded view is removed.
* More dependencies are bumped to the latest revisions.

[3.0.0]:https://github.com/jesec/flood/compare/v2.0.0...v3.0.0
