---
layout: post
title: Release 4.4
category: blog
excerpt: Stream with Your Player, Sequential, Retrieve .torrent
author: Jesse Chan (jesec)
---

## [4.4.0] (February 2, 2021)

- Return a portable link when torrent content is requested
  - Allow sharing of links to other people
  - Allow casting (Chromecast, Airplay) of content to devices which can't authenticate with Flood
  - Allow copying the link and paste it to a player application so more formats can be streamed
  - Allow external downloaders to use the link
- Allow to register to handle magnet links in "Add by URL" panel
  - Support for "add-urls" frontend query action is added
  - e.g. `http://localhost:3000/?action=add-urls&url=magnet:?xt=`
- Allow to download .torrent file of a torrent
- Add sequential downloading support for applicable clients
  - rTorrent: requires "d.down.sequential(.set)" commands, see [jesec/rtorrent@bd904e3](https://github.com/jesec/rtorrent/commit/bd904e366367cb9cbe007381089eea066253c9e9)
  - qBittorrent: supported
  - Transmission: rejected, see [https://trac.transmissionbt.com/ticket/452](https://trac.transmissionbt.com/ticket/452)
- Add initial seeding (aka superseeding) support for applicable clients
  - [BEP16](https://www.bittorrent.org/beps/bep_0016.html)
    - Saves bandwidth for initial seeder and quickly kicks off a healthy swarm
    - NOT recommended for non-initial seeders
  - rTorrent: not exposed to RPC interface, requires [jesec/rtorrent@657089d](https://github.com/jesec/rtorrent/commit/657089d438f917714c2386c28ce9d01a6e6a2737)
  - qBittorrent: supported
  - Transmission: not supported, see [https://trac.transmissionbt.com/ticket/1691](https://trac.transmissionbt.com/ticket/1691)
- Display existing tags in alphabetical order in tag selector
- Optionally skip assets serving with `--assets=false`
  - May be useful for users who serve static assets from their own servers
  - Or developers who don't want to build assets before starting a server instance
- Refresh manifest and assets related to PWA (Progressive Web Application) support
- Separate locale and language when using "Automatic" language setting
  - Deal with minor locale differences (e.g. date formats) between language variants
  - See [#123](https://github.com/jesec/flood/issues/123)
- Remove inconsistency of clients by normalizing hashes in API responses to upper case
- Explicitly pass paths of contents to mediainfo
  - So unrelated files in the same folder won't be processed by mediainfo
- Remove dependency on shell in disk usage functions
  - New distribution-less (distroless) Docker image is now available, which has smaller size and allows maximum security
- Standalone executable:
  - Now available for `linux-arm64` and `win-arm64`
  - Bundled Node.js runtime bumped to 14.15.4
  - Linux binaries are now fully static
  - Customized Node.js runtime with smaller size and memory consumption
- rTorrent fixes:
  - Create destination directory structure before moving torrent
  - Flood API responses no longer mixes with unprocessed rTorrent method call responses
  - Properly handle multi tags while adding
  - Remove torrents (with data) can delete empty directories
- qBittorrent fixes:
  - Fix "isBasePath" for newer versions
  - Implement "isCompleted" (skip_checking)
  - Trim whitespace in `tags` property
  - Optionally set website cookie for torrent fetching (add by URL)
- Security enhancements:
  - Don't leak details of internal errors
  - Rate limits /data API endpoint
- Bug fixes:
  - Pack torrent contents one by one to avoid out-of-memory during batch downloading
  - Potential crashes related to disk usage functions in rare Docker environments
  - Disallow comma in tag
- New translations
  - Chinese (Traditional), thanks to @vongola12324
  - Czech, thanks to @brezinajn
  - Dutch, thanks to @vain4us
  - French, thanks to @Carryozor
  - German, thanks to @Ben-Wallner
  - Hungarian, thanks to @sfu420
  - Romanian, thanks to @T-z3P
  - Spanish, thanks to @almontegil
- Bump dependencies

Additionally, Sonarr [#4159](https://github.com/Sonarr/Sonarr/pull/4159) and Radarr [#5552](https://github.com/Radarr/Radarr/pull/5552) now supports Flood natively.

**Notes about sequential downloading:**

Drawbacks:

- https://wiki.vuze.com/w/Sequential_downloading_is_bad

Benefits:

- Sequential downloading helps with I/O performance and lowers resource consumption and cost of hardware. It enables predictable I/O patterns and efficient caching. My hard disk is really noisy while downloading a torrent. But with sequential downloading, it does not make a sound. Speed is much better as well. Sequential I/O patterns also eliminate disk fragmentation problem that damages performance/lifespan of hard disks in long-term, which is a headache for long seeders.
- "It is bad for swarms." That's correct for unhealthy swarms. However, for private torrent users, in most cases, the seeder/leecher relationship is "many seeder, single/little leecher". Plus, with the incentives/punishments of tracker sites, there is little to no risk of "draining". As such, it makes more sense to protect hardware of everyone in the swarm. Predictable I/O patterns also allow seeders to seed many torrents more efficiently: if leechers use sequential download, the read patterns become predictably sequential, which allows better I/O performance and reduces the failure rate of hard disks.
- For seedbox users: seedboxes are virtual machines. That means many users share the same physical machine. Random chunk downloading is extremely taxing on disks. As a result, usually the speeds are limited by I/O more than bandwidth. If the swarm pattern is usually "many seeder, single leecher", sequential downloading can help a lot.
- Widely known "self" benefits: stream early, stream while downloading, organize episodes quick and unpack some files before finish, etc.

[4.4.0]: https://github.com/jesec/flood/compare/v4.3.1...v4.4.0
